Pharma 101
Pharma Company- Medicine Productions---- Provider and Pharmacy
Global Prescription Drug sales (Projected $1.4 Trillion in 2026)
7.4% CAGR 2020-2026
USA being top at the health care spending (% of GDP)
Top-10 Pharma Company- Pfizer, Abbvie, Janssen, Merk, Sanoli, AstraZeneca
Oncology- largest therap area 20%
Immunology being 2nd
254 M&A deals in 2023 (Volatile Industry)
Highly regulated
Regulatory Industries across countries
Stakeholders-
1. Patients 2. Pharma Manufacturers, 3. Healthcare Providers 4. Payers (Insurance Providers- both public and private) 5. Pharmacy Benefits Managers 6. Employers 6. Government (As i. regulator, ii. payer, iii. sponsor of 
Segments of Pharma manufacturer- 
1. R&D ( Chemicals to be used and test products through to regulatory approval)
2. Manufg and Distribution 
3. Marketing& Sales
Types of Pharma Products:
1. OTC medicines
2. Prescriptions
3. Vaccines
4. Medical Devices
Branded (7-12 yrs-loss of exclusivity) vs Generic Medicine
Adherence (Patient's compliance with their prescription regime; % of doses taken as prescribed)
Persistence ( the no. of days between a patient's first dose and the day they stop taking the drug) (persistency decay curve) (duration of therapy)

Orphan Products:
Rare disease (<1 in 200,000(
US Orphan Drug Act of 1983: provides incentives to pharma companies to develop medicines to such diseases and conditions, including tax credits)
those medicines are called orphan products

Pharma vs Bio Pharma
Biologics are fastest growing pharma category

Formularies and Copayment Tiers
Tier-1 (Generic Products)
Tier-2 (Preferred branded branded products)
Tier-3 (Non preferred branded products)
Tier-4 (Speciality and biosimilar products)

Tier determines the terms and conditions under which the payer will cover the cost of the product-
dosage and frequency
?
?

How Pharma make profit?
-find new products
-get products to market as fast as possible, at the minimal practical cost
-maximize revenue from every product
-Explore new indications for existing products

Lynparza

25K Petabytes data in healthcare realm
80% of patients data is unstructured (physicians dictated notes after consultation with the patients)
Data Sources:
Prescription Data, Medical Claims Data, Electronic Medical Data

Digital journey of Patient:
1. Awareness
2. Diagnosis
3. Treatment Decision
4. Payment
5. Fulfillment (to receive medication and prescription)
6. Maintenance

Prescribers, Writers, repeat writers, adopters

Detailing: 